# Ask Questions on Learn

It is absolutely possible to learn how to program entirely alone, following
online tutorials and reading forum discussions. The problem is, what happens
when you get stuck on something and can't figure it out? As in, _really stuck?_
This is _going to happen_ during the process of learning how to code.

Without a doubt, there is a value in improving your problem solving skills and
persevering until you find a solution and get unstuck. Getting really stuck,
however, can derail you for days and may even cause you to stop learning
altogether.  At the same time, very often, all that was really needed to get
back on track was a point in the right direction or to see an example _just
once_. Surely others have encountered the same or similar problems, and being
able to connect directly with someone to talk out a problem significantly speeds
up the time it takes to learn.

For this reason, Learn developed the Ask a Question feature, a way for students
to reach out and get support when they need.

## Get Help in Real Time

When you Ask a Question on Learn, you’re reaching out, in real-time, to the
Learn community — including other Learners like you working on the same
curriculum track. In addition to this, there are also “Learn Experts” who are on
hand 16 hours per day to help — and you can typically expect someone to get back
to you in under a minute. That kind of responsiveness is pretty cool, right?

![AskAQuestion](https://curriculum-content.s3.amazonaws.com/intro-to-learn/AAQImage.png)

Typically you’d be asking about a problem you’re having with your current
lesson, but feel free to ask anything you want and try the feature out!

## How it Works

It’s worth taking a moment to understand what’s going on here.

When you ask a question, it’s always in the context of the lesson you’re
currently looking at. Everyone that is currently working on this track who has
completed this lesson will be notified, as well as a team of “Learn
Experts” — professional developers who are also part of the Learn community and
are dedicated to supporting your progress on Learn. So you may see another user
jump in, or a Learn expert, or both. The whole idea is that Learn is a
supportive community where everyone is helping each other learn to code.

When your question is resolved, hit 'mark as resolved' to close it out.

## When to use it?

Part of learning anything new is struggling on your own. To a large extent, the
struggle is the way forward. So you should keep in mind, when working on labs on
Learn, that getting something wrong and being a little bit confused is all part
of the process. Don’t feel you should be reaching out every time you hit a
roadblock.

However, when you’re truly stuck, when you’ve stared at your code for longer
than is reasonable, or you’ve tried Googling for a solution with no luck, or a
concept just completely eludes you and you need someone to walk you through it,
then yes, absolutely, reach for the Ask a Question button and let the community
help pull you up and help push you through the obstacle.  

You can also ask for assistance if you've run into an issue.  Say for instance,
you accidentally deleted an important file on a lab and aren't sure how to fix
or recreate it. Our Learn Experts can help you troubleshoot and even jump on a
video call to find a solution.

## Helping others

When you get help, it’s only natural to feel like you want to help others too.
It’s part of being human.

So when other Learners ask questions, you should feel excited and proud to jump
in and help them out when you’re able to. While the good karma is often
incentive enough, you also personally benefit from answering questions.

When you help a fellow Learner solve a problem, you deepen your own
understanding. You gain a better understanding of the art of programming. You
get to connect with another human being. It’s a powerful thing.

Of course, you’ll need to find the right balance between helping others and
getting into your own learning zone.

Code lots. Get help. Be helpful. Reap the rewards of the Learn community.

## Conclusion

Ultimately, you must forge your own journey and hold yourself to learning the
concepts in this course. That doesn't mean, though, that you shouldn't ask for
help. Think of the community around you as another tool you have to ensure your
success, and do not hesitate to ask, even if the question seems simple.

<p class='util--hide'>View <a href='https://learn.co/lessons/ask-a-question'>Ask
A Question on Learn</a> on Learn.co and start learning to code for free.</p>
